Serenna Beers: Nervous system and when trauma get stuck in our scent central nervous system.
Serenna Beers: It starts to basically affect us physically. So maybe you notice more headaches. Maybe you notice you're more tired. Maybe you notice more chronic pain.
Serenna Beers: Maybe you notice you get real like irritated, really, really fast because our body keeps the score. And that's one of the books that I always recommend to anybody that I work with is there's a book by
Serenna Beers: It's Dr Vandal kisser something weird, I can. I never can remember his last name, but you can get it off the Amazon and it's a book that is called the body keeps the score.
Serenna Beers: Because we hold our trauma in our body. If we don't, process it in the way that our brain was meant to in an adaptive pattern, which is a healthy pattern we go all male adaptive. So our brain goes, wait what I don't want to deal with this. So we go and we
Serenna Beers: Push them down em with em Dr we initiate bilateral stimulation and that's left and right eye movement. So it's going back and forth.
Serenna Beers: I use this one here. It's I have more of a darker background too so that you're able to see it and I move it left and right, and you follow it. So, your eyes are going back, left and right which stimulates left and right brain.
Serenna Beers: Movement. When we go to sleep. We're supposed to go into REM sleep. REM sleep is our rapid eye movement that's when our, our, our minds are at the most.
Serenna Beers: calm, relaxed. That is our most subconscious state of mind, that's when we dream that's when things come up like
Serenna Beers: I remember I used to be so tired from work and we were in the middle of like a state audit and I would dream at night because I was exhausted.
Serenna Beers: Because I would go into REM sleep because my body just shut down. I would dream that these big, huge vanilla files with legs were running after me. It was just
Serenna Beers: Crazy crap are our dreams are are are what a direct result of things that we worry about. And if we step things too too long.
Serenna Beers: Eventually, they start to come out in other ways. And if we're not ready to deal with them or we don't want to deal with them. That's when you have all the body issues.
Serenna Beers: It can come out in a way of an eating dis dis disorder. It can come out in substance abuse, it can come, come, come out in a addictive codependent re
Serenna Beers: Relationships. I mean, there's different ways that each person deals with the effects of trauma. And so with that wand. What, what
Serenna Beers: What the goal is, is to bring the trauma. That's lodged in your nervous system that's right below. Like, like right here right here and you bring it up to the working memory so that your brain can process it in the way that it that it was meant to from the very start.
Serenna Beers: And then your brain goes from the beginning to end. So we're like, we're going to play a demo tape.
Serenna Beers: So it's difficult during the processing, because I'm bringing up things in you that you've chose not to remember for a long time. Right.
Serenna Beers: So it can be difficult in the moment, but at the end of it you will see immediate relief.
Serenna Beers: Because what we're gonna do is we're going to desensitize your brain to those traumatic events. And that's, hence why it's I
Serenna Beers: Movement desensitization reprocessing. So we desensitize you first.
Serenna Beers: And then we help you to reprocess so that when you bring that same memory up because it's not like you're going to forget about those things trauma trauma right memories are memories and and we occasionally will think about them.
Serenna Beers: But you won't remember them in such a way where it's so traumatic that it's really triggering maybe maybe instead of wanting to use to numb.
Serenna Beers: Because we've desensitize you. It's like, oh, well, that really didn't feel good. You know, I didn't like that, but I can still manage my life and my emotions because your brain has processed it. Does that make sense. Yeah, so I'm gonna
Serenna Beers: share my screen.
Serenna Beers: Okay. Give me one second. I've got a pull up something on my screen really quick.
End our steps.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so I'm going to share my screen with you and this just is going to give you a better a better idea of exactly how we are going to prep for this. So in the beginning we prep. So basically,
Serenna Beers: This is where you and I like we are now we talk about what what it is and we truly identify the issues that you want to work on.
Serenna Beers: Regarding your trauma, whether it's depression, anxiety intrusive memories past abuse, whatever that event is first we understand and and and find what what we like to call the target is. Okay. Um, and, and there's also some
Serenna Beers: Mental prep work which is which is what you're going to do over the next week before we meet again.
Serenna Beers: And that's where you just kind of mentally prep yourself. So I want you to be practicing a lot of self care. I don't want you to think too much about
Serenna Beers: Your past events because you'll have plenty of time to do that with me and I don't want you to activate yourself and until you're with me and we're ready to process it from start to finish. Okay.
Serenna Beers: So when we
Serenna Beers: When we figure out a target. This is where we pinpoint the exact memory that is Caught. Caught causing you pain so that we can effectively begin to address it.
Serenna Beers: Now, specifically because there's traumatic events, like for example my mom's death that that was one of the things that was I struggled with for years. I lost her when I was eight. I didn't deal with it till I was 38 years old.
Serenna Beers: You know, but the the traumatic. Part of it was sitting on the front steps. I remember like it was yesterday.
Serenna Beers: In my little white dress waiting for my mom to come home because my dad was going to pick her up. Well, he comes back with all of my aunts, but without my mom.
Serenna Beers: She had had a heart attack and she died when he was on his way to go pick her up.
Serenna Beers: Not, not knowing. Okay. So, here, here, here I am eight and my dad's left with three young kids and I just go on about life, I cried. I think once and then I began, I was
Serenna Beers: The eldest daughter. So I started to cook clean while my brothers and sister were outside playing. I was
Serenna Beers: Getting dad's lunch ready for the next day I would listen to him cry, and I'd bring them beer. I mean, I take off the shoes I became the caretaker and of our whole family.
Serenna Beers: So bring it up all the way till I'm in my 30s will about 1819 as when it started to come out like I couldn't step it down. So I started to numb it I got involved with drugs, alcohol, blah, blah, blah.
Serenna Beers: promiscuity. I mean, you name it. I was involved in it because I didn't know really what that was. And I didn't know that it stands, all the way back from that very young, young age.
Serenna Beers: One of the reasons why I became an MD or therapist is because I also besides being educated and trained and all that I first
Serenna Beers: Acquired it for myself because I didn't know that you could heal from it. I really didn't know and I have to be honest with you. It changed my whole life. Like it changed my whole world. I could not believe he
Serenna Beers: Even after one session. How different I felt how all of a sudden I felt like maybe there was hope, like I was going to be able to
Serenna Beers: Manage My emotions and I was going to be able to bring up my mother without falling apart and wanting to drink and use over it.
Serenna Beers: And and when I think about that same memory. Now, it's very different. I don't even cry over it.
Serenna Beers: Because I processed it. My brain was given the ability to process it through the same type of thing with the light bar or wand and
Serenna Beers: Telling the story from beginning to end around that specific part that needed to be desensitized. So that's why we say specific. So we want it specifically to pinpoint because that's probably the highest level of disturbance for you. And then that's the one that we go after
Serenna Beers: And so I basically guide you through it.
Serenna Beers: Step by step and you will describe to me in
Serenna Beers: Feelings sensations smells sounds anything visual images, anything that has to do with that memory. You are going to
Serenna Beers: Describe it. As I move the want and also while I I move the wand.
Serenna Beers: They have found through research that if you also use your use your hands and whether you do this or you do this on your thighs, but you're you. You're also going to tap left and right at the same time as I'm going back and forth with the wand.
Serenna Beers: And so it says on my form here to identify the 10 most traumatic memories and the 10 most
Serenna Beers: Favorable ones. And the other part of your homework is I want you to and I want you to take down my
Serenna Beers: Will you actually have my email address because you sent me something you're going to send to me without explaining it because, again, I don't want to activate you. I just want bullet, bullet points. So mine would have been
Serenna Beers: sitting on the porch waiting for my mom, right. So I just want you to write down specifically what the traumatic event is and then when when you and I work to gather, then we will then then we'll open that up right
Serenna Beers: And the reason why I asked you to identify 10 most favorable memories is because in the event that you become really activated and you kind of start spinning out for lack of better terms.
Serenna Beers: I use that to do what's called a cognitive interweave and that's where I bring something good in to bring down your, your level of heightened activation
Serenna Beers: A better way to say it to kind of bring bring bring you down some because my goal is not to create so much pain in you that you shut down.
Serenna Beers: Because of it. My goal is to help you through that. And there's times when maybe a happy memory of, say, your grandma or something you said that your grandparents raised you right. Yes. Maybe we bring in like
Serenna Beers: A memory of her to kind of for lack of better terms neutralize that
Serenna Beers: But all the while moving the wand. And the reason why is because when when we're done, and your post session and you start to bring up that original memory because you will that bothered you
Serenna Beers: Your brain is going to remember that we also brought in, Grandma, who was your commonplace. Who was your, you know, if that's what you choose. So we you use that to your advantage to to help help you
Serenna Beers: In the event that it becomes too difficult for you to work with. Does that make sense.
Serenna Beers: Yeah, okay. And if at any time. I'm not making sense or you have any questions, please let me know because I give you a lot of information really fast.
Serenna Beers: Okay. And so then we identify to with within this step of walking you through the the bilateral stimulation, which is the wand left and right back and forth. We identify the negative disempowering beliefs that you have associated with that.
Serenna Beers: Memory, I use the example I am a victim because I remember I also went through a similar thing in my addiction with with the rape. It was the most horrific thing.
Serenna Beers: Ever the guy ended up getting 10 years for it.
Serenna Beers: And I didn't even think that they were gonna believe me, because I was a drug addict and I thought that the
Serenna Beers: District Attorney was going to throw it out, but much to my surprise, they actually helped me because they knew whether I was hired or not, it happened, and there was proof. Right.
Serenna Beers: And so, but I felt like such a victim. Well, when I feel like a victim that disempowered me. And so I i associated that trauma with I am a victim.
Serenna Beers: We always attach a negative belief about ourselves with any traumatic memory. So the goal is, is to take that negative cognition and replace it with a positive one. So maybe
Serenna Beers: If it's I am a victim. Then we install at the end, which I will talk, talk, talk about that at the end of it when when when we close the session we do
Serenna Beers: What is called an installation. And that's where I put in your brain. So we go faster. And we do what's called an installation of a positive cog.
Serenna Beers: Mission. So maybe it's I am empowered and I'm stronger than my situation or whatever it is, it's going to be something that fits according to you, what you would say what your style is it's not me.
Serenna Beers: Who is going to choose your words only you know you better than anybody. So it'll be you. Who, who will pick out whatever that negative belief is. And also, whatever the
Serenna Beers: Positive belief that you want to believe, even if you don't quite yet. Our goal is to tell your brain that that is what you want to believe. So we're going to put that in there.
Serenna Beers: Does that all make sense.
Serenna Beers: Yeah, okay.
Serenna Beers: The desensitization. So that's when as soon as we identify the specific area that we want to work on. Then we then, like I said, I take, I take this wand and I move it back and forth.
Serenna Beers: And I might need new batteries by next week I've used this sucker a lot
Serenna Beers: Oh, maybe it's not screwed in and I promise you this is all fixed before we have our session.
Serenna Beers: That is really strange. So it's like not turning on it all. Anyway, so we just go back and forth really fast at or the desensitization sorry is slower. It's like this right and you're just following it. And I have a I'll put up a, like a like a black black
Serenna Beers: Curtain so that you'll see this light and you'll just see me and you will see this light and then you just follow it and you go back and forth. So we be sent sent sensitize that I use it for maybe up to 10 minutes depending on you.
Serenna Beers: And how long that it takes to bring your disturbance around that particular memory to at least a one. So the highest level is a 10 like where it's most DS start serving. That's probably that's probably
Serenna Beers: It doesn't happen very often that I get folks that say a 10 I get a lot of eights. I get a lot of nines and oftentimes I i
Serenna Beers: I really don't get it, get a lot of 10s because folks have stuffed it down so much that they really look. Oh, what a 10 is. You know what I mean. And so we use that and up until we process it and your level of de stress has gone down.
Serenna Beers: And then after each, each of the rounds. You know, I will kind of watch a look for your eyes and there's certain things that that you do with with your eyes that I will indicate to me that maybe you need a break.
Serenna Beers: Or I will also watch you know as I move the wand. I just kind of look for certain things and then I will stop and ask you where you
Serenna Beers: Feel it in your body. It's going to be really important that you don't try to over analyze it. Because yes, it is strange that you could take a light wand and
Serenna Beers: All of a sudden feel different about things that that have bothered you for years, but it's science. And if you need any more proof.
Serenna Beers: If you go on to em dr.org it'll give you case studies. It'll probably explain it better than me. Because, uh, Francine Shapiro, who's the doctor who discovered it, she she explains it. Amazingly, and so that that'll give you more in information on it.
Serenna Beers: So,
Serenna Beers: We also talk about the feelings that come up. Because remember, I'm like with this one's not me, but this little one by stimulating
Serenna Beers: The left and right brain moving your eyes back and forth, we're stirring. We are stirring some stuff up. We're bringing stuff that you've held on to for a really long time.
Serenna Beers: Up to your working memory. So it would make sense if all of a sudden, maybe your head felt weird tingly or your hands did depending on where you you hold personally your trauma at is basically where it's going to start kind of
Serenna Beers: Go, go, go, go. I'm going to and and so our goal is to move the trauma down and out. We're moving it down and out. We're moving it from your body out of your body. And it's a whole visualization thing that you and I do to gather and it's pretty cool actually.
Serenna Beers: And the feedback that I've gotten just from the last three gals that I've worked with here just in the last couple of weeks, say that they never knew that they could feel positive about life. So I thought that that was really cool.
Serenna Beers: And again, I want to reiterate, it's not anything that I do. I'm just the person that moves this one. It really is science. And it's amazing by stimulating left and right brain.
Serenna Beers: That you can actually activate your subconscious and even if you don't want stuff to come up, it's gonna because of the by lateral I I move movement that we do.
Serenna Beers: And then after the installation we are after the after the installation we that's when we would put the positive
Serenna Beers: Beliefs in whether yours is examples that I have up there you know where I am I am safe now. A lot of times when there's a abuse you we we lose that sense of
Serenna Beers: feeling safe. And so, maybe, maybe that's a message that you need me to hear but it's important that you that you let me know as we go through, through it.
Serenna Beers: Whether or not you do feel like it starts starting to move its way down and you will feel it and then quote closing because you will have experience high stimulation to your brain and your nervous system.
Serenna Beers: We will basically do what is called a calm place. So I will make sure that before I leave you, that we do some bilateral stimulations where you see yourself in a place where
Serenna Beers: You know, whether it's the beach or another state where you know it. There's no contamination THERE IT IS LIKE A calm place where you feel safe, where you feel like you, where you can just relax because that's going to be really important to
Serenna Beers: And then there's one other thing.
Serenna Beers: Afterwards, okay. So post session you will continue to process even after our session. It's going to be really important that you just
Serenna Beers: Let your let your body go through it because, much like how our emotions are felt. It's like a way that builds. Right. So these big old waves. And the more that it comes rushing through it builds and builds and builds and builds
Serenna Beers: Eventually WAVES BREAK. Right. It's the same with how we feel you're it's almost like you are going to feel this rush of
Serenna Beers: I don't even want to describe it, because it's different for everybody. For me, it
Serenna Beers: I was crying like endlessly like sobbing and sobbing. I couldn't stop. It was crazy. I'm like, what is
Serenna Beers: Happening. And then I crashed. I slept for 12 hours. I don't think I slept for 12 hours since before I had gotten clean, like I just don't sleep like like that. I'm a mother of a young child, and I literally was wiped my brain did so much work.
Serenna Beers: But I'm telling you, it changed my entire life. It changed my world, hence why I went into this field and wanted to become a trauma specialist because it's real life.
Serenna Beers: Science and it really does work. And I never would have thought that there was something out there to help heal me because talk therapy just traditional talk there. It was not working for me. So this, this was my cry out for help and it it it really does work. So my over
Serenna Beers: Animation and hype furnace is because I believe in this stuff. I believe in it with with with my whole heart.
Serenna Beers: And I it's important that I get your bought by in. So that's why one of the reasons why I go over with that go over it with you very specifically one
Serenna Beers: So that you have a clear under standing of what could and couldn't happen, you know, physically, emotionally
Serenna Beers: Because we're, we're going to trigger you where we are going to activate. We're going to wake up your subconscious and bring all that stuff that's stuck down there. Up, up and out. And so
Serenna Beers: You are going to feel feel it. And so it's important that you understand the risks there.
Serenna Beers: But then it's also I want you to understand that there's also exercises that I do with you. So I don't open you up and just leave you out there vulnerable and it's supposed I also take the necessary steps to also close you. So I open you up and I close your backup.
Serenna Beers: And then I give you steps to take after our session is done and, in the event that you start to feel
Serenna Beers: It bubbling again I have you continue to tap with your hands either like this or like this and you would close your eyes and you would imagine yourself again at your calm place saying whatever the positive cognition is that you choose.
Serenna Beers: Does that make sense.
Serenna Beers: Yeah. Do you have any questions, concerns fears.
Sydney Kent: I'm, um, I'm not really questions where I, I, I was literally seeing myself in the future, like thought. So I think this is something that is going to help
Serenna Beers: Good. Well, I tell you what, being
Serenna Beers: A trauma, sir. Fiber I my you break was in 2005 and I, you know, this isn't something I share with groups.
Serenna Beers: But I do share personal things when it is relevant.
Serenna Beers: To somebody who maybe might be a little bit more opened up and I remember like it was yesterday it was back in May of 2005 and it changed my world.
Serenna Beers: I was devastated and em Dr was the thing that helped me work past it you know now.
Serenna Beers: Somebody can come behind me without me freaking out, you know, I used to constantly look over my back. And that just got old
Serenna Beers: I couldn't live like like that. And even in in my sobriety because I got clean a sep tember 30th of oh five. So that's just a few months after that, you know, rape, had happened.
Serenna Beers: And even in my sobriety. I was miserable, and I was about two years clean and I'm like, Something's wrong. I just, I'm not getting well like I'm staying clean but I don't feel good. I don't feel well. And that was when a sponsor of mine said have you ever thought of. And so I did and
Serenna Beers: Sydney, it just changed my whole world, I wouldn't be strong and empowered and be able to do so half of the stuff that I do if I hadn't gone through this type of form of therapy myself so
Serenna Beers: No.
Serenna Beers: So do you remember what it was that I asked for you to do and to send me
Sydney Kent: I'm turn my gosh
Sydney Kent: I'm 10 event and then five
Serenna Beers: Why don't we start with in bullet points. And remember, I don't, I don't want you to describe it.
Serenna Beers: I just want the bullet points five
Serenna Beers: Most traumatic event.
Serenna Beers: Or five specific events or targets that you want to work on and then five most favorable
Serenna Beers: Memories.
Serenna Beers: Are you able to write it down.
Sydney Kent: Yeah, I got the bullet points in the five most memorable.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: The five most memorable and the five most are the five traumatic events that are most pain. Paint, Paint painful that you want no work on but
Serenna Beers: Again,
Serenna Beers: An emphasis on don't explain it. Just give me bullets and I will go into it will to do it with you when we're ready to work on that part two killer one
Serenna Beers: Okay, okay.
All right.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so. While I've got you on the phone. Let's go ahead and take a look at my calendar and also really quick. I want you to know to that our first when I start to do some of that work with you.
Serenna Beers: I'm going to do some of the bilateral sustain me stimulation with what's called dynamic re
Serenna Beers: resourcing and that's where I'm just doing all positive stuff I'm putting in all positive stuff because I'm going to build what's called your ego strength because the, the kind of work that you are going to do is kind of scary like
Serenna Beers: We're, we're like,
Serenna Beers: dredging it up. Right. And so when I mean I can imagine. I know how I felt. But I can imagine how you feel when like oh gosh, I know I said I wanted to do this, but oh
Serenna Beers: This really gonna like happen. It's important that you see for your for yourself first in a positive way how this can work because then you'll be more open and your brain will be more relaxed to allow this stuff to come up. That's not so positive.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so you can take it, take a breath because we are going to do positive before we bring up any trauma. Okay. Okay. Let me look at my calendar really quick.
Serenna Beers: Um, what time works better for you as far as like afternoons, the mornings.
Sydney Kent: And afternoons are better.
Serenna Beers: Okay, um, does Friday work. Good for you.
Sydney Kent: Or the first
Serenna Beers: Let's see if that's next Friday, then yes.
Serenna Beers: Yes. Okay, hang on, real quick. Let me go to that date. And so far I oh it's filling up bass. I have a four o'clock group, I can do.
Serenna Beers: I can do 12 or five
Serenna Beers: Yeah.
Sydney Kent: Sounds good.
Okay.
Serenna Beers: So let me
Serenna Beers: Pm, and it's Sydney
Serenna Beers: Okay.
Serenna Beers: And I will call or I will let the clinic know now to put you on my calendar for the first step five at 5pm Pacific Standard Time, which is your also time zone right that's also yours.
Thanks.
Serenna Beers: Okay, yeah, then that is the same. Okay, so I will see you next Friday at five. And in the meantime, you can just give me that list by saying no later than Wednesday.
Serenna Beers: Okay, okay.
Sydney Kent: All right, thank you so much for coming here.
Serenna Beers: Same. Same. Same here. And I hope you have a good weekend and stay safe and well okay
Sydney Kent: Thank you.
Sydney Kent: Okay. Bye bye.